+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-18T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Advertisement's Effects on Society"
slug = "adevertisements-effects-on-essays"
tags = ["SocietyEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
It’s a common myth that advertisements are evil, and hold some form of psychological power over us; in fact many advertisements today are just trying their best to promote their products. Advertisers are not here to harm society, or throw away moral responsibilities to promote a healthy economy, they simply do their job at promoting the product to compete with the competition within our economy. Many people today say that advertising is working “ below the level of conscious”, just like Schrank from Source E; but the fact still remains that there is little to no real harm done to the consumer.
Many consumers, relative to modern belief, develop buying habits at a young age. Studies done by Seventeen Magazine shows that 29 percent of women still buy the brand of coffee they liked as teenagers, and 41 percent buy the same type of mascara. (Source D) Consumers are thought to be swayed to try a certain coffee brand because of an ad on television, but it shows that teenagers develop buying habits that carry on into adulthood. If the spending habit isn’t broken, how is there an effect? Even though studies have been proven that ads have a “dramatic” effect, but as said in Source E, “One way to do this is to analyze ads in microscopic detail.” If we have to pull apart the ad to find the “dramatic” effect, the effect must be weak, because it is not apparent.
Ads, however, do hold a certain amount of stimulation for information.They help provide useful and educational information to the public. Ads fund most of what you read in your magazines and books, they fund the radio, and the free apps on your phone, even what you watch on television. This means your children’s educational programs, your favorite newspaper, and those documentaries you skip over on History Channel.  In the end, small, thirty second ads are nothing to the 45 minute news section that you watch every morning. So consequently, Ads are often skipped over, muted, or tossed aside just to rush back to the program or to finish the article. Additionally, this takes away their power to even hold any effect at all.
When they are viewed, ads usually educate the viewer to help make good decisions. Advertisements can tell us how to use their product, the ingredients it has, the side effects to pills, the benefits to a hybrid car. They make us aware of the harms of drug use, or texting while driving. However, the author from Source B argues that there is a lot of misinformation spewed about in the advertisement world. When talking about the tobacco industry and their advertisements, Shaw claims that they “promoted the continued social acceptability of smoking and encouraged the incorrect belief that the majority of the people smoke.”  This could not be true when anti-drug use and anti-smoking ads overpower the tobacco industry. Cigar and cigarette commercials are a rarity.  Its simply because consumers, as said before, develop habits, habits including buying and smoking tobacco. Shaw observed that  the market continued to grow “despite an expanding awareness of health risks and increasing advertising restrictions.” This shows that spending habits really do not break easily. The tobacco industry has been seen to really rely on the massive population of nicotine addicted smokers to fuel their profits. Ads really do hold little to no effect if people continue to smoke despite the increased amount of information that says they shouldn’t.
In conclusion, regardless of whether there is any real psychological magic that advertisers are performing, the viewers are not giving them the power to affect them. Ads are simply here to promote their product in the best way they can, and help fund sources of good information
