+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-18T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Apathy Within Technology"
slug = "apathy-within-technology"
tags = ["LiteraryEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
In Disneyland’s Tomorrowland, “the future is today!” Tomorrowland has become a thing of the past, with our new ravishing tablets that make movie watching and skype calling easier everywhere, and smartphones that can look up anything with a press of a button. Tomorrowland’s idea of robots and mechanical creations help us turn it into reality with creations like Rumba and Jibo. All of this seems like a dream come true, but is it really? Scientists and researchers all over the world are seeing that the effects of technology may not be as grand as we always dreamed it would be.
Technology has taken a disastrous turn into numbing addictions and the overall death of humanity. In 2014, a viral video of a newscaster having a stroke on television went and swept the nation, though many thought of the video as funny it also signals that a line has been crossed and technology has gone too far. Along with this, the famous “Sharkisha” video has brought attention to psychologists that humanity is losing their empathy. According to recent Kaiser findings, the average child of ages 8-18, spends about 11 ½ hours on a form of technology. They’ve been exposing and desensitizing themselves to the horrors of the internet. It’s killing their empathy. (Small) Not only is it affecting our empathy, it's killing our ability to communicate and understand emotions. In 2007, a group of 197 students were asked to identify emotions through facial expressions. They were quick to identify rapidly changing expressions. After playing a violent video game, however, they couldn’t read or recognize any facial expression. (Small)
With this, technology is affecting the quality of our conversations. Kids in the middle of their developing age who interact with a screen are proven to have a harder time understanding emotions, creating strong relationships, and properly depend on others.  This is because you can’t emotionally connect with anyone through emails and texts.  Growing up, kids need physical affection such as hugs and pats on the back for assurance.  (Johnson) This anti-social behavior is now called cocooning. People more now than ever, are cocooning themselves at home. In 2012, a few Chase banks saw that their users spent 65% increase in payment for television and show rentals in 3 months than the year previously in that same period. 71% of money that is usually spent on hotels, car rentals, and payments for tolls go to staying at home watching on-demand. 23% of homes were spending over $100 every month for pay T.V. (Snider) Since 2012, the numbers have only gotten worse. For years, neurologists have been studying how our brains change to our environment. Despite being unable to pinpoint when and how in the brain this works, they’ve seen that technology is changing us drastically. (Greenfield)
Technology is taking our ability to socialize and interact. We already know that empathy, communication,  and travel are seriously being affected by our questionably best invention ever. But how is this going to hurt us in the long run? If the average human continues to dive further into the technological age, society will initially fail. Our ability to communicate is what gives us governments, businessmen, and official groups like that infamous N.R.A. Most people fail to realize just how much we need to communicate to go anywhere. A common business man trying to start up a restaurant must talk to several people in the span of one day. He relies heavily on being able to persuade, speak properly, and read a person’s face and voice to progress and achieve their goal. For example, if this same businessman decides to spend all his face time on the internet; he is bound to become apathetic. If this happens, and is unable to understand emotions, his ability to persuade others crumbles. This leads to failed deals and less help. An issue like this makes it harder for him to get the supplies he needs to hold up this restaurant. If he continues down the road of endless technology, he will become unable to make face to face interactions, which his employees will not approve of. But this was just one man; imagine an entire nation filled with people exactly like him.
In Fahrenheit 451, written by Ray Bradbury, the author clearly depicts a world where the government has used technology to remove empathy from citizens’ lives.  This is made evidently clear with the use of Mildred, Montag’s wife. During the novel she is written as a character that lacks empathy, she seems to only favor watching television and partaking in fake ‘family’ programs which are made by scripts sent to viewers. When Montag wants to stay home after a traumatic venture with an elderly woman the night before, Mildred states, “She is nothing to me; she shouldn’t have had books. It was her responsibility, she should’ve thought of that. I hate her. She’s got you going and next thing you know we’ll be out, no house, no job, nothing” (Bradbury 54). This quote exemplifies the manner in which Mildred has taken form due to the technologically induced removal of empathy.  Possibly Mildred has acquired such a lack of empathy from the T.V shows she watches. Her favorite, as read in the book, is White Clown. Bradbury writes, “A minute later, Three White Cartoon Clowns chopped off each other’s limbs to the accompaniment of immense incoming tides of laughter” (Bradbury 96). This program is showcased throughout the novel, only to be finally explained towards the end of the novel to show the horrendous vision it puts forward. How the clowns so brutally dismember each other, though a cartoon, has a lasting apathetic tinge on all who watch. From prolonged exposure to such a program, the mind might accept the images as reality and become numb to actual murders or tragedy.
In conclusion, through the words of several psychologists and the author Ray Bradbury, technology creates a lasting apathetic mark on our minds and lifestyles. Bradbury used Mildred as a vessel to exemplify how a lack of empathy can affect one’s view on the world. While Greenfield so clearly stated how neurologist scientifically proved that technology has a lasting effect on our physical brain. Technology, though created for the betterment of mankind has repetitively shown us how it came packaged with unexpected yet extremely relevant negative effects.