+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-18T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Big Obama is Watching You"
slug = "big-obama-is-watching-you"
tags = ["SocietyEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
“Arguing that you don’t care about privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don’t care about freedom of speech because you have nothing to say.” Edward Snowden, America’s most modern whistleblower, had brought it to the people’s attention to the ever so decreasing amount of privacy partnered up with the increasing amount of surveillance the American people are facing. The ignorant people think that if you have a basic virus cleaner on their computer, they are safe from all the harms the internet can give away. What they do not know is that to get access to your social security, bank account information, and all the little documents you so desperately need to yourself and no one else, and it is as easy as clicking the little box that says “ I agree with the terms and conditions”. Ignorant people, also, believe that the only thing at risk is your information. The basics of consistent and deeply woven surveillance cause more damage than simply exposing an identity over the internet. You can not control who comes in or out of your computer, just as you cannot see that the profile you have unconsciously built over the Internet. Your rights to privacy, decision-making freedoms, our “innocent until proven guilty” rights, and information control are taken away every time you open up your browser. People like Edward Snowden knows this, and can see a world where Big Brother is already upon us.
In 1984, George Orwell paints an ugly and detailed picture of a society watched at every moment by the anonymous entity called “Big Brother”, who watches from the telescreens and listen through hidden microphones. Winston, the main character, had a basic profile built and accurately used against him in the end. Coincidentally, computer profiling, though it has only been introduced fairly recently, has made amazing progress in development and accuracy. LG Smart TV was found to be snooping on customers. Everytime the TV was turned on, for how long, and every flick of the channel was documented, transmitted, encrypted, and sent away to god knows where. Despite tricking you into thinking you had a choice in whether you can allow people to document those things, you don’t. Even when changing the default setting to off, the TV’s still continue to transmit data(Crump).
The control of The Party is more real and closer than you think. In the world of 1984, it was just telescreens and microphones, cameras everywhere. In our world, it’s so much more complex, and diverse than we can fathom. Our entire lives have gone online, and the opportunity to go off-grid is slowly shrinking to a near impossible hoop to jump through. In a single day of looking on your Internet history, Google and other various websites that you scroll on can develop and examine personal surfing preferences. They can also note the IP address, the type of device you use, and they amount of time you spent looking at something (Sherman). There’s entire companies out there are built and paid to gather such information and sell it to third parties, such as Turnstyle. Turnstyle is a company who gathers information through sensors that were placed in businesses in Toronto to gather signals from smart phones as they search for wifi. Every phone can be uniquely identified as they go street from street. As networked devices rise, what people do will be monitored and analyzed, by both corporations and government. (Crump). It is going to become impossible to hide in the world we’re creating, not even the good old outdoors can save you from the dangers of surveillance through technology. Apple introduced iBeacon in 2014; A simple bluetooth technology that can track where Apple users are in restaurants and stores. While manually turning off your bluetooth may help with iBeacon, Apple has conveniently made Bluetooths default to be on through on of the little software updates we look so longingly towards.
It doesn’t end there, there is so much technology going online that it’s impossible to know who is looking into what on which device. Companies and agencies use data found on your tablets and phones for money, for economic opportunity, for power. Our good friend iBeacon has the ability to turn on a microphone on any apple device connected and listen to what’s going on. Another company, Persistent Surveillance Systems has a camera attached to a small aircraft  that can record the patterns of the “planetary life” for hours at a time. They strategically place them on the highest point  in any town or city, and they can see anything. It’s nearly impossible to avoid. The man who created this glorious wonder based it off something similar that he had made and used in the war with Iraq. In this day and age, we’re being watched from all directions, even from our own houses. Certain LEDS that are being put outside to help light up dark areas can also act as a surveillance system of cameras and sensors, and our Electricity company will sell out how much electricity you use just to see if your growing Cannabis. With all of this, our world’s seems stitch into the fictional world of 1984.
In 1984, one of the greatest threats are the thought police. The thought police watch you through telescreens, cameras, microphones, and god knows what else to monitor, analyze, and take those who threaten their society away when no one is looking. Most people would begin to state their rights, and the various statements in the Constitution that “protect us” from these evils. While yes, we have an entire government that says it is on our side, when you take a small toe-dip into the pool of technology, you find there’s legal loopholes that love to swim deep in the waters.
In February of 2014, Our very own Department of Homeland Security’s Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) requested a database that would act as a license plate reader. Their excuse: they wish to locate criminal aliens and absconders, and enhance police officer safety by arresting suspects away from their homes, and possibly… even away from other citizens? Again, just the toe dip in shows that the two different worlds may not be so different after all. There is no difference between taking them at night, and in the middle of a secluded road. Either way, no one sees the wrong doings our oh-so trusted law enforcement is committing. No one to watch, no one to object. Less witnesses, more control. Taking just a slight step further, who’s to say that these people being arrested will be tried properly? Who’s to say that they aren’t just arresting someone for spreading a message the government doesn’t want being spread, such as Edward Snowden?
Another observation that one can see in 1984, is that the Party watches what you do in private, and often punish you for what you do, if it isn’t in the favor of the Party. Julia, in particular, reveals just how much they look into your footprints. “I always look cheerful, and I never shirk anything. Always yell with the crowd, that’s what I say. It’s the only way to be safe.” (132) She wasn’t wrong, either. As seen in the end of the book, their relationship, their rebelliousness, and lack of printing to track was what lead to their downfall, and how O’Brien caught them. In the end, the Party uses examples from Winston’s past to hurt, change, and convert him. In 21st century America, you can find that there is no difference. In many cases today, agencies simply issue a subpoena, the legal loophole known as “third party doctrine”, where the information presented can be aggressively, and wrongly interpreted. The various information sold and taken can be analyzed to identify people at greater risk of violent behavior, and is used to delude the lines between potential and actuality. Strong figures in the issue are overhyping data- collecting as a way to minimize threats. “Taking the people away before the crimes are committed”, just like our good-old pal Big Brother. And like his proles and Party members, we the people are in a forced participation, and there is no way to negotiate the “Terms and Agreements”, even when we are aware of the activities being taken. Because of this, we individuals are increasingly becoming more and more window-like, while the government institutions and their buddy- buddy corporations are closing their doors, and building walls.
A few corporations, however, are fighting this new craze. Microsoft, Apple, and Yahoo! are continuously fighting the government’s want to get into their databases. Since the creation of the PRISM program, it has been an endless fight for these companies to keep the rights of privacy to their customers. One must sit there and ask, why? If all of these things are going to benefit the society, and has such great intentions, why fight the power?
Well, the waters run deeper than we think. First, privacy serves more than just the people’s rights to their persons and property; it serves as a backbone to uphold other rights: such as liberty, freedom of choice, and the right to secure your persons through inaccessibility. It serves as our main defense from these same threats such as iBeacon, and protects our right to give consent, and control the amount of information exploited about us. It isn’t disposable, it’s a fixed variable in our very own human rights, and in our development into our independence. Georgetown University law professor Julie E. Cohen, as well as many others, believe that “since life and contexts are always changing, privacy cannot be reductively conceived as one specific type of thing. It is better understood as an important buffer that gives us space to develop an identity that is somewhat separate from the surveillance, judgment, and values of our society and culture.” (Sadowski) Psychologically speaking, anyone can talk for days about peer-pressure, and how is it any different in surveillance? We see in 1984 that the constant pressure of the telescreens watching you, and the towering posters of Big Brother changed and reshaped the way their society developed. Without privacy, they were unable to come to independent thoughts and ideas without the fear of committing thoughtcrime. In common sense, it’s also made known that political, social, and economic issues are made time and time again by an individual’s thoughts. WIthout that ability, we lose the rights. Cohen argues that this self-development allows us to discover what type of society we want and what we should do to get there, both factors that are key to living a fulfilled life. You might think it is a good idea to willfully hand over your data in exchange for personalized security, or to broadcast your location to friends, but consumption, we allow these companies to unconsciously change our behaviors.
Your rights to privacy, decision-making freedoms, our “innocent until proven guilty” rights, and information control is being ripped out of our hands while our heads are turned. We must keep privacy in its holding importance, or our entire future is at risk.