+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-18T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Epigraphs Explain the Mind of a Young Neophyte"
slug = "epigraphs-explain-in-the-mind-of-a-young-neophyte"
tags = ["LiteraryEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
In the deepest aspects of human behavior, there is something about the kingdom that is greater than the kings themselves. The lives we rule are unpredictable, they hold an invisible force on our choices and decisions.  In July 1990, a mysterious, young member of the Transcendentalist ideal ran away in a yellow Datsun to leave his mark on many minds of Americans. In September 1992, a journalist by the name of Jon Krakauer unveiled the enigma of his death. In *Into the Wild*, Jon Krakauer exposes the mind of Chris McCandless, and glues the reasons behind his choices together with carefully picked epigraphs.

*Into the Wild* attentively pieces together Chris McCandless’s psyche with quotes at the beginning of every chapter to form the clearest details of him. Readers are given a clarion depiction of who Chris McCandless was, and why he made the decision to go survive in the Alaskan Wilderness. In the first epigraph of Chapter Seven, Krakauer introduces the concept of his book with a comparison of the world within McCandless with *Pilgrim's Progress.* Mark Twain says, *“One (book) was Pilgrim’s Progress, about a man that left his family and didn’t say why. . . the statements were interesting but tough”(61).* By doing this, Krakauer successfully alludes to the idea that McCandless’s statements on why he left were definite and logical,though unconventional. Using such epigraphs before the paragraph reveals a significant part to a story, like a character's motivation.. The author also uses these to open the mind of the reader to alternative ways of perceiving life. Furthermore, making these same reasons appear to be in fact, “acceptable.” Thus, Krakauer unfolds Chris’s story in the next few chapters, leading to the events of his adolescent years, showing that the McCandless family has a few secrets of their own. As a maturing adult, Chris graduated high school, only to find a previous affair between Walt McCandless and his first wife. Immediately, the to-be Tolstoyan prodigy’s view of his family tarnishes as the family tries to lock it away and ignore the metaphorical elephant in the room. All the truth is gone, and Alpinist just wants the same sense of honesty back.  Krakauer, in longing to highlight this aspect of Chris McCandless, quotes Henry David Thoreau’s Walden, *“Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth...the hospitality was cold as ice.”(117)* With this epigraph, the author opens eyes to the world of the McCandless family. To show love, the parents used money and expensive luxuries. Despite growing up in a privileged home, Chris didn’t value the trinkets and paper debt they gave him. He wants to trust his family and the promise of truth. The father’s inability to admit his mistakes and inability to have stayed faithful led the young independent into a deeper sense of hatred towards the “family” he had.

The desire Chris has to leave home are because of the strain that resides in his family. Jon Krakauer notices the familiar isolation that Chris developed throughout his college years, and explains the way he was thinking. He quotes Anthony Steven, *“It is also true that in some instances trauma in the form of early separation or bereavement has steered the potentially creative person toward developing aspects of his personality which can find fulfillment in comparative isolation,” (61).* This, of course, foreshadows the read into the truth behind ALex SuperTramp, Chris’s alterego. Simply because of how the view of his family shattered so painfully, Chris starts to create and hold on to more Transcendentalist morals. He comes to despise society’s way of living, like his parents. The Neophyte cuts all ties between him and the superficial way of living, he donates all of his money, burns what is left in his wallet and his social security card, and abandons his well loved car; Chris sets out, determined to find happiness without human contact. To help elaborate the reasoning behind this, Krakauer quotes Estwick Evans’ *A Pedestrious Tour of Four Thousand Miles, “I wished to. . . divest myself of the factitious habits, prejudice and imperfections of civilization. . . and to find, dmist the solitude and grandeur of the western wilds, more correct views of the true interests of man.” (157).*  As a new born naturalist, he wants to purge himself of all society’s repetitive and lifeless practices and go find peace and truth in the isolation of the nomad lifestyle. Eventually, in order to find his “solitude and grandeur wilds”, and “the true interests of man,” he leaves to the Alaskan wilderness.

In August 1992, a mysterious, young member of the Transcendentalist ideal was found starved to death in a bus on the Stampede Trail, and left his mark on many minds of Americans; and in 1996, a journalist by the name of Jon Krakauer wrote about the paradox of his life. In *Into the Wild*, Jon Krakauer reveals the character of Chris McCandless with carefully picked epigraphs.