+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-19T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Fitzgerald and Money"
slug = "fitzgerald-and-money"
tags = ["literaryEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
*“Money can’t buy you happiness”* is a saying society has used for a long time. As kids, society preaches that no matter how much money you have, or how expensive your possessions are, it will not bring you happiness. The factors in which brings happiness are people and environment in which you surround yourself by. This is also a common theme in literature, especially in F. Scott Fitzgerald's *The Great Gatsby*, where the author opens a curtain to the world of the rich, and how truly unhappy each person is miserable. In this story, the author shows, through the two main characters, his feelings on money, and how he firmly believes that money will never buy happiness.

In *The Great Gatsby*, the character of Daisy is a materialistic person. She feels a need to have the nicest things in life, and finds a lot of comfort in money. Her character represents Fitzgerald's view on the materialism in the world. She is often found in the cleanest and nicest dresses and always talks about the things she has in life. The young woman expresses such a need for materials and clearly shows want when she and Gatsby meet again after five years. Daisy, Gatsby, and Nick go to the Gatsby mansion where Daisy sees all of what Gatsby has accumulated with his wealth. Upon going into Gatsby’s room, she comes across the shirts Gatsby owns.  She exclaims, *“ They’re such beautiful shirts...It makes me sad because I’ve never seen such- such beautiful shirts before” (Fitzgerald 92)*. Usually, when someone weeps, its out of an overwhelming wave of emotions. For Daisy and her clear-to-see attitude and liking for expensive and nice possessions, it is safe to say that her materialistic  mind comes to play and she shows clear want for Gatsby’s life. As well, her character is often associated with money. After Daisy and Gatsby meet again and start their affair, the main characters go to East Egg and have lunch at Daisy’s house. As the afternoon progresses, Gatsby turns to Nick for consolement because of Tom’s unwelcoming attitude towards him. As Nick tries to assure him, Gatsby states, *“Her voice is full of money”(120)*. Fitzgerald puts this here to show how money-hungry Daisy really is. This entire line says she is so infatuated with money that her entire personality is based upon it. Daisy grew up rich, which only fed into her ability to find comfort in material possessions. Because of this, she carries a basic rich-girl attitude. Using Daisy’s character, Fitzgerald shows how the general population has fallen into materialism and need for more money.

Unlike Daisy, however, Gatsby uses his money differently. Gatsby’s character is often associated with grand and fancy possessions. This is due to Gatsby’s need to impress. While Gatsby is not necessarily trying to win the hearts of everyone, he wants to impress and gain the attention of Daisy. Using his money to appeal to Daisy’s  materialism, he is trying to get Daisy to fall back in love with him. Gatsby spends five years building up his illusion for Daisy.  Everything he does everything, he owns is to win the heart of the selfish woman of East Egg. Nick first notices and points out how much Daisy has a say in his life when they go to Gatsby’s mansion after tea at Nick’s. Nick states, *“He hadn’t once ceased looking at Daisy, and I think he revalued everything in his house according to the measure of response it drew from her well-loved eyes.”(91)*. This clearly shows that Gatsby’s money and possessions are valued by Daisy’s likes and dislikes. Gatsby does not just use those to get her attention, he also throws great parties in hopes Daisy will hear about it, and go see him. While this initially does not work, This is due to Nick’s invitation to tea and their reunion, Daisy does finally arrive to Gatsbys West Egg party. During her time at the party, she shows immense disliking for it. Gatsby becomes stressed, and Nick sees that, *“He was silent, and I guessed at his unutterable depression”(109).* This is Gatsby caring about what she thinks. His entire happiness and satisfaction is based upon pleasing Daisy, yet he does not quite make it. Despite trying desperately to win Daisy over using his money, possessions, and luxurious parties, he fails. This is due to the fact that money can’t buy you love. Fitzgerald uses Gatsby’s character to show that the general public also wants money to impress others and buy friends.

Throughout *The Great Gatsby*, it is seen that Fitzgerald believes that materialism and the need to impress has taken up most people’s minds in the 20’s. Everyone falls to the prison of money to fill these needs. Everyone begins buying unnecessary things and getting cheap and easy profit to gain the happiness they think money can get them. He uses Daisy to exemplify that even though you have all the most expensive possessions, materials and money will never give you happiness. Even though  Daisy displays that she has a simple, one-track and happy mind throughout most of the book, inside she is truly depressed. It's seen in the end of the very first chapter that Daisy holds a more complex  and sad mind. In one of the few times she expresses this, she is talking about her daughter, Pammy, and the moment she found out that she was a girl. She states, *“All right, I’m glad it’s a girl. And I hope she’ll be a fool- that’s the best thing a girl can be in this world, a beautiful little fool” (17).* This shows that she feels truly depressed, because she feels that the only way to ever be happy is to be a fool, which she later states that she is not. She is also seen later in the book showing signs of her depressed state, like during her time with Gatsby as she was touring his house; where she is seen in a sad state simply because everything Gatsby has is better than hers. Fitzgerald uses this to show the readers that sometimes a big house and the rich, picture perfect life is not actually perfect. Additionally, Fitzgerald uses Gatsby to show that money and beautiful shirts cannot buy you true compassion and love. As stated earlier, Gatsby creates his rich and fancy life for the likes of Daisy. Gatsby clearly doesn't go anywhere with this plan, since in the end he is dead and Daisy is in Chicago with Tom. Gatsby, despite the constant effort, could never quite get Daisy back. At the end of the party, he begins to see that Daisy is not the same person that was in love with him. He states, *“And she doesn't understand. She used to be able to understand. We’d sit for hours -”(109).* Fitzgerald uses this quote to prove to the reader that even though you have the biggest house, and materials that make people so jealous, people won't love you anymore than they did before. Fitzgerald clearly shows distaste in what money has done to the human spirit through these characters. By showing Daisy’s and Gatsby’s *“American Dream”* lifestyles and how, despite that, they still are not truly happy. Fitzgerald conveys that money will never buy anybody happiness.

Fitzgerald has obviously strong opinions on money. He shows that money will never buy happiness through his characters, Daisy and Gatsby. Daisy is a materialistic person, where even though she has a large amount of money and great possessions, is depressed and miserable with her life. Gatsby, despite showing off the grand amount he has, still could not get Daisy back. In *The Great Gatsby*, Fitzgerald uses Daisy and Gatsby to show that money will never buy you happiness.
