+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-18T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "The Individuation of Frankenstein"
slug = "the-individuation-of-frankenstein"
tags = ["LiteraryEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
“No one is free who has not obtained the empire of himself. No man is free who cannot command himself.” Pythagoras, a greek philosopher,  believed that in order to truly live free of any boundaries or disadvantages with ourselves, we must understand and come to terms with our own being. In the case of some individuals, however, coming to terms with the uglier part of ourselves is so difficult, and so dangerous. Failed Individuation leads to a life swallowed up in misery, just as it did with the young Victor Frankenstein. His inability to accept, and incorporate the different aspects of his Self in Mary Shelley’s book Frankenstein,  ultimately lead to his doleful ending.
When his Individuation started, Victor was influenced by two parts of his psyche that are personified: his anima and his shadow. His feminine qualities and more emotional features of his personality were embodied in his fiance, Elizabeth.  She was the first aspect of his individuation that came around, and was easily accepted.  Victor even describes his acceptance with a peculiar amount of possessiveness, he  “... looked upon Elizabeth as[his] - [his] to protect, love, and cherish. All praises bestowed on  her, I received as made to a possession of my own.” (28) His ability to accept his feminine side so quickly and eagerly was because he saw that the general society around him “praises” those features, especially with his parental influence. Shelley depicts both his mother and father as peaceful and friendly, the epitome of good hearted people: ”My mother’s tender caresses and my father’s smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me, are my first recollections.”(27)  Because Victor is raised by feminine traditions, it allows his anima to be  twice as easy to show and come to terms with. However, later in his journey, his darker features, especially his reckless pursuit of knowledge and impulsive behavior, is shown in his shadow, the creature.
Victor, even at a young age, was impulsive and infatuated with the idea of gaining fame through knowledge. In the beginning of his tale he describes himself: “My temper was sometimes violent, and my passions vehement; but by some law in my temperature they were turned not towards childish pursuits, but to an eager desire to learn, and not to learn all things indiscriminately.”(30) And as he grew older, his temper and passions grew with him. After turning to Ingolstadt to delve deeper into his studies, he depicts his first day. He recalls to Walton, “From this day natural philosophy. . . became nearly my sole occupation. I read with ardour those works. . .I attended lectures, and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the university;”(41) This was not necessarily an over exaggeration. Two years later, he’s created a reanimated corpse, thinking it would benefit society, but when he looked at it at its completion, he realizes what he had done and, despite “desir[ing] it with an ardour that far exceeded moderation,” only “breathless horror and disgust filled [his] heart.”(47)  The creature takes life at this point. Even though the creature and Victor are no where near each other during the first few months of the creatures life, they hold eerie similarities. One of the most significant parts of the creature’s beginning is his obsession with the cottagers. Because he had a strange fascination with the sad beauty that was the DeLaceys, he stuck around long enough for the arrival of Safie. Safie was ignorant to the native language of the country she was in. While Safie was learning, the creature took advantage of the lessons the DeLaceys gave. Despite the positive influence this experience had, this was also the event that sparked his own impulsive tendencies. Heartbroken and angry from the cottagers’ rejection, the creature burned their house down. He recalls that it “. . . produced a kind of insanity in my spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection.” (119) He then goes out to wander again, only to run across William, Victor’s younger brother, and Justine, the family servant.
Meanwhile, Victor returns to Geneva after a long sickness, only to find out William has been murdered and Justine is being accused of being the murderer. Victor knows it was the creature, and the only way to come to terms with his shadow is to accept his shadow.  In hopes of avenging the death of Justine, he goes out to confront the creature. Here the creature is begging for acceptance. He tries to sway Victor to create a female counterpart for him. He makes it clear to Victor that if he does not go through with this --  accept what his shadow has caused -- and come to terms with who he is, there will be dreadful consequences.  He pleads, “If any being felt emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them an hundred and an hundred fold; . . . Oh! my creator, make me happy; . . .do not deny me my request!”(126) Victor, feeling sorry for the creature, makes the promise to hand a female to him in return that he never comes near mankind again. As he builds the female, however, he becomes more disturbed by the process than he was the first time. Horrified by the idea there could be two of these creatures out in the world to scare and kill people, he breaks that promise. He states, “Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create another like yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.”(143) After a small bickerment between the two, the creature simply says, “It is well. I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your wedding night.”(143) This span of time was Victor’s challenge to accept the darker part of him, and his inability to come to terms and create the second creature, he cannot gain his true sense of self, and will suffer with a corrupt psyche, and never grow wiser. He will never learn from his experiences.
His shadow goes on to destroy his anima. When looking over her, he says, “she was there, lifeless and inanimate thrown across the bed, her head hanging down, and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair.”(166) With Elizabeth now gone, Victor’s feminine influence was also gone. She was not there to counter his aggressive shadow  and fails in his individuation process. This is because he’s lost the only part of himself that can counteract his shadow. Without him Anima, there’s no feminine qualities to repress his aggressive thoughts. “I will exert myself; and if it is in my power to seize the monstr, be assured that he shall suffer punishment” (169) But, not only is he now aggressive, he’s ignorant to what has happened to him. This is really shown at the end of the book, after he meets Walton. Walton, a captain of a ship, had made the decision to return to England to save his crew from potential danger. Like Victor, Walton had an obsession with fame, and after listening to Victor’s tale, he came to the conclusion that his trip was too dangerous for what he wanted. He learned the lesson Victor was supposed to. But alas, Victor was outraged by this. He criticizes the crew, “You were hereafter to be hailed as a the benefactors of your species; your names adored as belonging to brave men. . . and the benefit of mankind. And now, behold, with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the first mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink away.”(180) By this statement alone, it’s clear to see that Victor never grew up or learned from his faults. He still believes in the fame and glory that comes from knowledge, believing it is more important than the possible consequences that may or may not come.
In order to truly live free of any regrets or faults with ourselves, we must understand and come to terms with our own being. In the case of Victor Frankenstein, coming to terms with the uglier part of himself was so difficult, it was proven dreadful. Failed Individuation leads to a life swallowed in misery, just as it did with the young scientist. His inability to accept, and incorporate the different aspects of his Self in Mary Shelley’s book Frankenstein, brought him his “woeful“ end.