+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-19T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "Romanticism's Role in Literature"
slug = "romanticisms-role-in-literature"
tags = ["LiteraryEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
We all die. The goal isn't to live forever. Rather, the goal is to create something that will. In Romantic literature, eternal life, imagination, and emotional intuition are common themes, which often are evident in modern writings. In Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment”,  and Alyson Noel’s *Evermore*,  the characters are obsessed with the thought of immortality, driven by emotion, and expressed through imagination. Romanticism’s principles of never-ending youth, heart driven decisions, and imagination are exemplified by the Romantic period in both Hawthorne’s and Noel’s stories.

Immortality is the biggest aspect in both pieces of literature, though for different reasons. In  Evermore, one of the protagonists, Damen is consumed with the thought of ever-lasting love. The entirety of his immortal life has been centered around the reincarnation of Ever, a main character. He states,
*“I love you as a fellow soul who inhabits this earth. I love you as a fellow immortal. I love you because I finally understand what made you the way you are. And if I could change it, I would. But I can't—so I choose to love you instead” (168).* The influence of the Romantic period is shown by the author in focusing on the undying love Damen has. The immortal spends his life either being with, or looking for Ever, making the theme of immortality an extremely prominent part of his life. Without immortality, he would never be able to spend a literal eternity with his beloved. Most Romantic authors, like Noel, love to emphasize this beauty of achievable things, such as immortality. While Damen is infatuated with living forever with Ever, the characters of “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment” lust for their long lost youth, and initially make a life altering decision. Hawthorne writes, *“But the doctor's four friends had taught no such lesson to themselves. They resolved forthwith to make a pilgrimage to Florida, and quaff at morning, noon, and night, from the Fountain of Youth”(5)*. After the science experiment ended, the five individuals runoff to achieve immortality. The literary period is often associated with this kind of eagerness to gain continuous youth. Immortality is a Romantics way of revolting against science. In Hawthorne’s short story, the science experiment is just another way to deny the existence of legitimate science. In both writings, the theme of immortality stands out, showing the influence Romanticism has on literature.

Furthermore, imagination is needed to write such inconceivable stories. Both authors use this element to create beautifully hyperbolic plots that draw in a reader. In Noel’s novel, the protagonist has an incredible gift, which allows her to see a person’s entire life story. She writes, *“But I don’t know any of this from spying or peeking or even being told. I know because I’m psychic.” (1)* The beauty of Romantic literature, such as Noel’s Evermore,  is the uniqueness of the components, which can only be achieved through the author's ability to use their imagination. In Noel’s novel, her imagination leads her to write about a young and troubled teenage girl who lives life as a psychic. This allows the reader to delve into a world where they’ll always be on their toes, and always excited to flip the next page. Romanticism encourages all novelists to use imagination to break apart from the boring, everyday life. While it’s nice to run away from the cruelness of real life, authors, such as Hawthorne, also use their imagination to prove a point. He says, *“‘Yes, friends, ye are old again,’ said Dr. Heidegger, ‘and lo! the Water of Youth is all lavished on the ground. Well--I bemoan it not; for if the fountain gushed at my very doorstep, I would not stoop to bathe my lips in it--no, though its delirium were for years instead of moments. Such is the lesson ye have taught me!’”(5).* The youth-starved characters were created and used to prove that immortality is not always “worth it”. Romantic authors, such as Hawthorne,  created these, overly-stereotyped characters to prove this point. Though Romantic writers usually only write for entertainment, it was also a common factor within the period to create themes in an artistic and creative way. Imagination is almost always the way authors achieve this.  Because of this, imagination, such as Hawthorne’s, was greatly admired during the Romantic period. These authors both used their imagination, which is a commonly used element within Romantic literature.

In addition, emotion is an important component to any Romantic piece. Without the use of emotion, a writing cannot be classified as Romantic literature. Evermore is a love story, so of course emotion is the biggest driving force within the novel. When Damen’s past is finally revealed to Ever, she points out how his love for heirs his reasoning for nearly everything. The character retorts, *“‘Oh, so you see some chick in baggy jeans and a hoodie, and you just have to have her so bad, you decide to repeat high school, just to get her?’ ‘Sounds about right.’ He laughs” (200).* To clarify, the author is implying, because this man is so in love with this girl, he makes the decision to relive high school just to be with her. Romanticism features emotion as the biggest influence on a character’s decision, and in Evermore, it is easy to infer that emotion of love, is in fact, the primary reasoning for the characters choices in repetitive education. Even in Hawthorne’s “Dr. Heidegger’s Experiment”,  the protagonists, blinded intuition, engage in affairs with the Water of Youth. The author describes, *“But they were young: their burning passions proved them so. Inflamed to madness by the coquetry of the girl-widow, who neither granted nor quite withheld her favors, the three rivals began to interchange threatening glances”(3).* Jealousy is a extremely powerful emotion, and Hawthorne uses it to drive the characters to fight over a woman. The Romantic period thrived with such events, because a Romantic believed that emotion was the best way basis for decisions. Both authors write their characters to be driven by emotion, unveiling romanticism within their stories.

Romanticism’s elements of infinite life, imagination, and melodramatic settlement are evident in both Hawthorne’s and Noel’s pieces of literature. Both authors’ main themes were immortality, driven by emotion, and created through their imagination.