+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-06-09T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "(SneakPeak) The Pain Rain Washed Away(part 1/2)"
slug = "sneakpeak-the-pain-rain-washed-away-2-of-2"
tags = ["CreativeWriting"]
image = ""
comments = false     # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
Physcopathic killers taught me a good trick: If you tell yourself the same lie over and over again, eventually it becomes true in your mind, and that one, specific thing is alright again. Even if it may not be the best lie, it keeps you in life, despite your 'crazy'. Although, if that lie is told to much, it becomes nothing again. At least that’s what my mother always told me, 'nothing ever lasts in this world'. You can watch the sun set again and again, but eventually, it will just become the end of the day; you can say I love you over and over again, but eventually, it will just become a sentence, not even a statement. Just three, stupidly simple words combined and ended with a period. She told me that I will wake up every morning, but through out the years, I'll wake up and forget why. That day *will* come, and don’t be surprised when it does, it will find me, and it will eventually end the happiness of it. Yea, that day did come. That day actually came a long time ago... though I don't remember when. It just happened.

This was a particular morning that I woke up to, not understanding why I was. Shook my head, not wanting to be conscious, I just wanted to fall back into the darkness of my slumber, where not even dreams can effect me. I haven't dreamed in since my mother died when I was twelve, and even when I did dream, I'd wake up screaming, but I could never remember what frightened me.

I live with an emancipated boy now. Yea, I know, it sounds weird, but he was the only one who would take me in, but even then, he almost never talks to me, and I have to pay for my portion of the rent, and cook every meal.

My father walked away from me, and I had no friends, no family that would care for me, so I was forced on the street for the first three months by my self, alone. I was in the dumpsters of a grand restaurant I'd never eat from again, a whole 98 pounds, filthy, and almost on the verge of being dead, I was what most people called in the city, a street rat, when he found me. He looked at me pitifully with his jade eyes, almost as if he was going to say, your life must suck. He watched me as I scrounged around for food, or anything edible in that matter. Normally, people glanced at me, if they were to pay any attention to a frail little girl like me, but he didn't. He just stood there, brown bags in his arms, and a straight face plastered on his head. finally, after five minutes of finding nothing, I jumped out of the dumpster, to find him staring at me.

"What do you want? Here to make fun of the scrawny street rat?" I yelled at him, "If you are, hurry up, and get on with your life, there's nothing here, if you couldn't see." I screamed, lifting my torn shirt to show my rib cage that bursted from my torso.

Instead of walking off, like I expected him to, he set down his paper bags, and pulled out a box of ripe, juicy strawberries. He set them on the dirty floor, got up with his bags in his hands, and walked away. I didn't hear his voice, nor found out what he was doing watching me, but whatever it was, he ended up saving my life.

Eventually, Hayden, my savior, took me in. Well, what he did was more like forced me back to humanity.

Either way, I thanked him every day I breathed, and I feel guilty for everyday I lie down and think about dying.

I shook my thoughts away, scared I was going to be late to work. On this Saturday morning, I had to buss tables at Eddie's. I washed myself clean of the blood that dried on my skin and in my hair in the shower, I covered the bruises with a heavy crème, and brushed my teeth clean of dirt. I dressed my self in the yellow dress for work, and tied the brown leather band on my right wrist. When I was done, I stared at my reflection. My nutshell brown hair fell in short, messy waves, ending just below shoulder length, and my curtain bangs covered most of my hazel eyes. My naturally browned skin shined with the heavy crème I rubbed on it, but even then, you could see my slender body was covered in battle scars. My chest still hurt with every breath I took, and I was sensitive to the touch, it was perfect.

I walked out of our apartment, yelling farewell to Hayden, who was strumming his guitar already. He nodded to me, not looking up from his instrument. I entered the streets of the city, ready for a work load of waitressing and bussing.

When I got to work, I sat down, and waited for the first costumer to come in.

"Hey Rae."

"Hi Eddie. How the house?"

"Not bad." Eddie, the chubby chef leaned over the counter, and winked at me. "How's Hayden? He gunna pay me a visit?"

"Eddie, you not my father."

"Damn near closest to it though."

"Ouch." I winced, understanding that he just hated that I was alone.

"But seriously, I need to thank that guy, he brought me such a cute girl." He said. I didn't answer him. I just leaned my head against the cool counter, trying to focus on the pain of my breathing.

"You okay there?"

"Yea."

"Didn't pick no fights again, right?"

"No." I lied, still focusing hard on what laced with my breathing. I coughed, feeling liquid come up. I swallowed it down, and continued breathing.