+++
author = "ElizabethRobinette"
date = "2016-05-18T10:54:24+02:00"
draft = false
title = "The War on Drugs"
slug = "the-war-on-drugs"
tags = ["SocietyEssays"]
image = ""
comments = false    # set false to hide Disqus comments
share = true        # set false to share buttons
menu = ""           # set "main" to add this content to the main menu
+++
Imagine just drinking your favorite alcoholic beverage was just as illegal as smoking a common plant. Imagine sitting alone at home, drinking your favorite alcoholic beverage, and suddenly your door is broken down, there’s a man yelling at you at gunpoint to get on the ground. This exact event that happens to many drug users today, and has been for 100 years of Drug Prohibition. We all know illicit drugs like herion, cocaine, and cannabis are illegal, what isn’t so known, is that drug Criminalization is wrong, and completely illogical. Drugs can be very dangerous, including alcohol, tobacco, and all prescribed drugs.These, and other legal drugs are either just as harmful, if not more, than all illegal drugs, and carry a higher percentage in causes of death in America  than all street drugs combined. The striking 45%  caused by prescription drugs, the 88 billion deaths caused by alcohol, and the 470,000 that die from tobacco caused disease is nothing compared to the 39% of deaths caused by all street drugs combined. Why can one take the risks of drinking,smoking, and pill popping, but can’t take the risks of psychedelics or stimulants, when both are proven to be a least just as dangerous? Another not so well known fact, most illegal drug have medical purposes, and they work. The supreme courts has made a clear statement that our body is our right, and while it's still up for debate whether we have a right to choose how to medically treat it, we all  know we want that right. We believe that if a single individual has the right to poison themselves with alcohol, deprive their brains of proper oxygen through a cigarette, and give a pill, prescribed by their doctor, the ability to control their lives and possibly even end it, why can’t a man treat his seizures with CBD oil, an oil taken from cannabis, with a 100%  success rate and a 0% fatality rate, or treat their alcoholism with LSD, which has a 55% success rate, and a 2% fatality rate, relative to AA, which only has 17% success rate. And even better,  they can treat their depression with two non lethal doses of shrooms, shown to relieve depression almost instantaneously after the trip, a year.  Well, that leaves this to the supreme courts to decide. But even if they choose that Medical care isn’t within our realm of constitutional rights, the fact still remains that drug prohibition is a proven failure. Comparing the US to Portugal after decriminalizing drugs in 2001, Portugal's drug related deaths went from 80,000 to about 33,000 in a single year, and it continues to drop today. In general, countries with decriminalized drug use like Portugal, Romania, and Estonia have significantly lower rates in general. The US alone is 87% higher in these statistics, than these countries combined. Our high rates and drug related chaos is due to our Drug Criminalization. Because of the criminalization of drugs, millions of good samaritans and citizens are denied much needed health services and supplies.Keep in mind that drug users are the majority and when drugs are illegal, the government cannot enact standards of quality, purity or potency. Consequently, street drugs are often contaminated or extremely potent, causing disease and sometimes death to those who use them. These laws, then, are actually promoting our epidemic in disease and death. Above that, the people’s property and pursuit of happiness is at risk. Prohibition was only supposed to attack the public enemy, but now, even non drug users can be targeted, and denied their right to the pursuit of happiness. Just by taking opiate related pain killers, such as morphine, a potential employee has just set themselves up for rejection; even though he takes legally prescribed medication, the testing mandate created by Drug Enforcement actually gives employers unlimited power to discriminate against millions of workers based on private health decisions. Our property is no longer safe either. Our government has forced UPS (United Parcel Service) and Fedex to spy on customers' packages, and our trash cans are often raided and exposed illegally and used against us. In Conclusion, because the Criminalization of drugs, we are denied our rights to property and the pursuit of happiness, we are put into extreme health risk by being denied health supplies and services, and due to the fact everyone has been made public enemy number one because of private health decisions, the argument that Prohibition works in any way is wrong and illogical. That’s why we need to decriminalize drugs.

### Addressing Common Beliefs about The War on Drugs

**Drug Users are Problematic:**For too long policymakers have used prohibition as a smokescreen to avoid addressing the social and economic factors that lead people to use drugs. Most illegal and legal drug use is recreational. Poverty and despair are at the root of most problematic drug use, and leads into addiction. And it is only by addressing these underlying causes that we can hope to significantly decrease the number of problematic users. (ACLU)

**Organized Crime and Drug Crimes Related To Marketplace:** The market for drugs is demand-led and millions of people demand illegal drugs. Making the production, supply and use of some drugs illegal creates a vacuum into which organised crime moves. The profits are worth billions of pounds. Decriminalization forces organized crime from the drugs trade, starves them of income and enables us to regulate and control the market. The price of illegal drugs is determined by a demand-led, unregulated market. Using illegal drugs is very expensive. This means that some dependent users resort to stealing to raise funds (accounting for 50% of UK property crime - estimated at £2 billion a year). Most of the violence associated with illegal drug dealing is caused by its illegality. Decriminalization would enable us to regulate the market, determine a much lower price and remove users need to raise funds through crime. Our legal system would be freed up and our prison population dramatically reduced, saving billions. Because of the low price, cigarette smokers do not have to steal to support their habits. There is also no violence associated with the legal tobacco market. (America's drug research and drug statistics official website)

**"Drugs are Bad", or Other Propaganda Related Things:** A wealth of disinformation about drugs and drug use is given to us by ignorant and prejudiced policy-makers and media-heads who peddle myths upon lies for their own ends. This creates many of the risks and dangers associated with drug use. Decriminalization would help us to disseminate open, honest and truthful information to users and non-users to help them to make decisions about whether and how to use. We could begin research again on presently illicit drugs to discover all their uses and effects - both positive and negative(ACLU).
Prohibition has led to the stigmatisation and marginalisation of drug users. Countries that operate ultra-prohibitionist policies have very high rates of HIV infection amongst injecting users. Hepatitis C rates amongst users in the UK are increasing substantially.
In the UK, the '80's clean needles for injecting users, and safer sex education for young people were made available in response to fears of HIV. Harm reduction policies are in direct opposition to prohibitionist laws. (ACLU)

**The Impairments of Drugs(Flashbacks included):** We need to treat all drugs like alcohol in the case of decriminalization. Drinkers are held up to responsibilities like to not drink and drive, drink water to avoid alcohol poisoning, and other various procedures. You can practice the same methods with drugs. Example, we don't want someone on LSD to operate equipment, instead of prohibiting them from drug use, we need to hold them accountable to be responsible. If they want to trip on a psychedelic, they should do it on their day off, just how someone wouldn't drink until after they got off work. People show up drunk to work and they just get sent home and can come back the next day. Why is it so hard to do that with other drugs?

And in cases of Flashbacks from certain drugs such as LSD, or other various drugs Popular Science has revealed that a recent study published in PLOS ONE by Norwegian University of Science and Technology neuroscientist Teri Krebs found no association between using psychedelics, including using LSD in the past year, and seeing things other people don't. But psychiatrists who work with psychedelic users say that the phenomenon, though very rare, is also very real. Alcohol is also known for flashbacks, but we have created hotlines and other services to help those in need.

**Drug Use is a Recent Epidemic/Issue:** (ACLU) During the Civil War, morphine (an opium derivative and cousin of heroin) was found to have pain-killing properties and soon became the main ingredient in several patent medicines. In the late 19th century, marijuana and cocaine were put to various medicinal uses -- marijuana to treat migraines, rheumatism and insomnia, and cocaine to treat sinusitis, hay fever and chronic fatigue. All of these drugs were also used recreationally, and cocaine, in particular, was a common ingredient in wines and soda pop -- including the popular Coca Cola.

**Drugs Makes Violence:** At the turn of the century, many drugs were made illegal when a mood of temperance swept the nation. In 1914, Congress passed the Harrison Act, banning opiates and cocaine. Alcohol prohibition quickly followed, and by 1918 the U.S. was officially a "dry" nation. That did not mean, however, an end to drug use. It meant that, suddenly, people were arrested and jailed for doing what they had previously done without government interference. Prohibition also meant the emergence of a black market, operated by criminals and marked by violence. (History)

**Prohibition Helps Regulate:** In 1933, because of concern over widespread organized crime, police corruption and violence, the public demanded repeal of alcohol prohibition and the return of regulatory power to the states. Most states immediately replaced criminal bans with laws regulating the quality, potency and commercial sale of alcohol; as a result, the harms associated with alcohol prohibition disappeared. Meanwhile, federal prohibition of heroin and cocaine remained, and with passage of the Marijuana Stamp Act in 1937, Marijuana was prohibited as well. Federal drug policy has remained strictly prohibitionist to this day. (ACLU)

**Only Bad People Do Drugs/Participate in Activity:** This simply is not true, proven by statistics. If criminals only took part of drug activity, prisons wouldn't be over populated. As we know, Criminal prohibition, the centerpiece of U.S. drug policy, has failed miserably. Since 1981, tax dollars to the tune of $150 billion have been spent trying to prevent Columbian cocaine, Burmese Heroin, and Jamaican marijuana from penetrating our borders. Yet the evidence is that for every ton seized, hundreds more get through. Hundreds of thousands of otherwise law abiding people have been arrested and jailed for drug possession. Between 1968 and 1992, the annual number of drug-related arrests increased from 200,000 to over 1.2 million. One-third of those were marijuana arrests, most for mere possession. (ACLU)

**Decriminalization Will Increase Drug Abuse:** Drug warriors often contend that drug use would skyrocket if we were to legalize or decriminalize drugs in the United States. Fortunately, we have a real-world example of the actual effects of ending the violent, expensive War on Drugs and replacing it with a system of treatment for problem users and addicts.
Health experts in Portugal said that Portugal’s decision 10 years ago to decriminalise drug use and treat addicts rather than punishing them is an experiment that has worked.
“There is no doubt that the phenomenon of addiction is in decline in Portugal,” said Joao Goulao, President of the Institute of Drugs and Drugs Addiction, a press conference to mark the 10th anniversary of the law.The number of addicts considered “problematic” — those who repeatedly use “hard” drugs and intravenous users — had fallen by half since the early 1990s, when the figure was estimated at around 100,000 people, Goulao said. Other factors had also played their part however, Goulao, a medical doctor added. “This development can not only be attributed to decriminalisation but to a confluence of treatment and risk reduction policies.”
(Transform Drug Policy  Foundation) Fourteen years after decriminalization, Portugal has not been run into the ground by a nation of drug addicts. In fact, by many measures, it's doing far better than it was before.
The background: In 1974, the dictatorship that had isolated Portugal from the rest of the world for nearly half a century came to an end. The Carnation Revolution was a bloodless military-led coup that sparked a tumultuous transition from authoritarianism to democracy and a society-wide struggle to define a new Portuguese nation.  The newfound freedom led to a raucous attitude of experimentalism toward politics and economy and, as it turned out, hard drugs. Portugal's dictatorship had insulated it from the drug culture that had swept much of the Western world earlier in the 20th century, but the coup changed everything. After the revolution, Portugal gave up its colonies, and colonists and soldiers returned to the country with a variety of drugs. Borders opened up and travel and exchange were made far easier. Located on the westernmost tip of the continent, the country was a natural gateway for trafficking across the continent. Drug use became part of the culture of liberation, and the use of hard narcotics became popular. Eventually, it got out of hand, and drug use became a crisis. At first, the government responded to it as the United States is all too familiar with: a conservative cultural backlash that vilified drug use and a harsh, punitive set of policies led by the criminal justice system. Throughout the 1980s, Portugal tried this approach, but to no avail: By 1999, nearly 1% of the population was addicted to heroin, and drug-related AIDS deaths in the country were the highest in the European Union, according to the New Yorker. But by 2001, the country decided to decriminalize possession and use of drugs, and the results have been remarkable.
What's gotten better? In terms of usage rate and health, the data show that Portugal has by no means plunged into a drug crisis.